If we had 3 stats for a game - Might / Agility  / Lex - and each of them only gated equipment, what achetypes would each of those things build into? 


Might would probably just be raw BIG NOMBER and HP tanking. 

Agility would probably be +AP (maybe specialized types of AP to avoid ridiculousness) and dodge / trap tanking.

Lex would be... an additional resource that is then converted into extra riders and other effects. Not like stars from the Regent; since it isn't part of a kit it can't gate card play. Probably more like mana from Slice & Dice, where you've got a limited selection of spells and the ever-present Burst, and you spend energy generated every turn to apply the spell to the thing you do. 



 - A baseline number for attacks should probably be 3 if we're using a GH style modifier deck. Makes the modifiers all very impactful.
 - With a baseline number of 3 for attacks, to get the feeling of Diablo in there, Forgiven should have 1 HP. 
 

Let's start with a grid size of 19 just to check our assumptions



Okay, no, we're doing bespoke maps using a map editor. No procedural maps.


...We need to just build Black Barrow and do a test of that bespoke map.

To do that, we just need to set-up characters, their modifier decks, their action decks and a combat system.



...Okay. 

Now we need to set-up test enemies and build the combat system. 



Okay. Card basics and combat visuals are ready. 

Now we need the turn and phase structure, and enemy actions. 


...Do we want levels to have escalation? 

No,  we don't. No in-mission escalation per se. We just handle escalation on the meta layer. The only escalation that occurs is that missions do get trickier as you go further into the heart of the map - but that is a mission design challenge, not a hard mechanic. 


What we need right now is a 5-segment fatigue clock for Agents and a phase / round tracker. Fatigue will be called Burn. 



Okay, now we need to implement the full deck / burn / discard system for action cards.

Okay; we want a fatigue system. Cards are burned out of slots every cycle:

Fatigue 1 - 18 slots
Fatigue 2 - 12 slots
Fatigue 3 - 12 slots
Fatigue 4 - 12 slots 
Fatigue 5 - 6 slots

...I think we can tie HP into this system too. 

Going to 0 HP just causes a deck fatigue level to be lost, burning away those cards and refilling health. 


...We could also have completely bullshit horrible enemies that can directly inflict fatigue to the player... 


We have the burn system set-up


We next need block? 

Then doors / traps and bypass ? 


We have block. Now traps / doors. 


'Einsteiner' 


We have hazards, room and corridors all working.

...Now we need the XP system, levels, and skill trees...
